Getting started - Linux (#141)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/get_started/get-started-linux.md

---
title: Install and use packages on Linux with vcpkg
description: Tutorial guides the user through the process of installing and using packages on Linux with vcpkg.
author: JavierMatosD
ms.author: javiermat
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 08/23/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
#CustomerIntent: As a beginner C++ developer, I want to learn how to install and manage packages on a Linux environment using vcpkg, so that I can easily set up and maintain C++ projects with necessary dependencies.
---

# Tutorial: Install and use packages on Linux with vcpkg

> This tutorial shows how to set up a C++ "Hello World" CMake project using the `fmt` library. Manage dependencies, construct the application, and execute the project with the help of vcpkg. This guide is tailored for a Linux environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to set up a C++ "Hello World" CMake project using the `fmt` library. Manage dependencies, construct the application, and execute the project with the help of vcpkg. This guide is tailored for a Linux environment.
```

## Prerequisites

> - A terminal to work in.

Reviewer 2: 'A terminal to work in' is very vague. Do you want to say 'A terminal such as Zsh or WSL'

- `git`, `CMake`, and a C++ compiler installed on your system

> - vcpkg installed on your system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- vcpkg installed on your system and on your PATH
```

## 1 - Set up the project

1. Create the project directory

>     This tutorial assumes your project is located in `/home/helloworld`. If you intend to place your project somewhere else, replace any references to that path with your preferred path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This tutorial assumes your project is located in `/src/helloworld`. If you intend to place your project somewhere else, replace any references to that path with your preferred path.
```

`/home` is an awkward assumption since it's a significant folder on Linux. Alternative suggestions: `/src/hello`, `~/hello`, `$HOME/hello`, `/opt/src/hello`, `/home/user/hello`

Reviewer 3: Personally, I'd go with `~/hello`.

> 

Reviewer 2: What does 'right next to' mean? A peer of?

>     Create a directory named "helloworld" to contain your project files, put it right next to your vcpkg directory. Then, navigate to your project directory.

Reviewer: > ... put it right next to your vcpkg directory. 

I think this is out of place; we just stated that the project will be in `/home/helloworld`.

    ```bash
    mkdir helloworld && cd helloworld
    ```

2. Create the manifest

>     Next, create a file named `vcpkg.json` in your project's directory, this is your manifest file. vcpkg reads the manifest file to learn what dependencies to install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Next, create a file named `vcpkg.json` in your project's directory. This is your manifest file. vcpkg reads the manifest file to learn what dependencies to install.
```

    From within the `helloworld` directory, run:

    ```bash

>     ..\vcpkg\vcpkg new --application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    vcpkg new --application
```

    ```

    The `vcpkg new` command adds a `vcpkg.json` file and a `vcpkg-configuration.json` file to your projects directory. The `vcpkg.json` file should look like this:

    ```json
    {}
    ```

>     The `vcpkg.json` file serves as the foundation to integrate vcpkg in your C++ project. Initially, the file contains an empty JSON object; additional attributes like dependencies and supported features can be added as your project grows.

Reviewer: This seems like it's elaborating on

> vcpkg reads the manifest file to learn what dependencies to install.

Should this be moved up to the top of the step?

>     The `vcpkg.json` file serves as the foundation to integrate vcpkg in your C++ project. Initially, the file contains an empty JSON object; additional attributes like dependencies and supported features can be added as your project grows.

Reviewer 2: What is a 'foundation to integrate vcpkg in your C++ project'  Foundation? I'd drop that mention and just say "The vcpkg.json file integrates vcpkg into your C++ project by providing a list of dependencies and supported features that are part of your project"

    The `vcpkg-configuration.json` file serves a different purpose. This file allows full control over your dependencies' sources and it's out of scope for this tutorial.

>     For this tutorial, all the dependencies come from the vcpkg registry at <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>. When there's no explicit configuration provided, vcpkg uses this registry as default.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph is excessive information for a getting started tutorial, especially considering the previous paragraph declaring the `vcpkg-configuration.json` file out of scope.

## 2 - Add dependencies and project files

Now that the project is set up, add the `fmt` library as a dependency and generate the project files.

> 1. Add `fmt` dependency

Reviewer 2: We'd say 1. Add the `fmt` dependency.

>     To do so, run:

Reviewer 2: You can remove 'To do so'

    ```bash
    ..\vcpkg\vcpkg add port fmt
    ```

    Your `vcpkg.json` should look like this:

    ```json
    {
        "dependencies": [

>         "fmt"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "fmt"
```

        ]
    }
    ```

2. Create project files

    Create the `CMakeLists.txt` and `main.cpp` files:

>     ```bash

Reviewer 2: The step says to create the files. Doesn't touch presume that it's already created? The step puzzles me.

    touch CMakeLists.txt main.cpp

>     ```

Reviewer: This seems like wasted effort. It should be fine to just tell the user to create the file with such and such contents; they don't need to `touch` them first.

>     Fill in `CMakeLists.txt` with the necessary information to find and link the `fmt` package. The `CMakeLists.txt` should look like this:

Reviewer: (opinion) I'm not sure I like the way this first sentence is presented.

> Fill in `CMakeLists.txt` with the necessary information to find and link the `fmt` package.

As a reader, I feel like this is an instruction that implies I should know how to complete it without reading further. If I was a new user, it would cause me some confusion ("I don't know how to find and link `fmt`; you told me to use it!") until I read further.

Instead, perhaps we should simplify the instruction to "Create a CMakeLists.txt file with the following contents.", and then explain what the file does.

Reviewer 2: agree

    :::code language="cmake" source="../examples/snippets/get-started-linux/CMakeLists.txt":::

    Likewise, populate `main.cpp` to print a simple "Hello World" using the `fmt` library. The `main.cpp` should look like this:

    :::code language="cpp" source="../examples/snippets/get-started-linux/main.cpp":::

## 3 - Build and run the project

1. Run CMake configuration

>     Configure the build using CMake. Update the `<vcpkg-root>` placeholder with the directory you installed vcpkg:

Reviewer 2: This style seems to tell you do to something first and then tells you how. I think you are trying to tell them what they are about to do. In that case, I think it'd be clearer to say something like "To configure the build using CMake, update the ..."   You have the advantage of knowing what you are going to say next, but the read doesn't. It's better to avoid 'look ahead' problems for the reader where what they've read will only make sense if they read the next thing too.

    ```bash

>     cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=<vcpkg-root>/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake

Reviewer: I think it would be great to use CMakePresets.json here, so we don't have to tell the user to write the super long `CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` every time

    ```

>     The vcpkg.cmake toolchain file allows the CMake project system to recognize C++ libraries provided by vcpkg. This makes it easy to use these libraries in your project with minimal effort.

Reviewer: > This makes it easy to use these libraries in your project with minimal effort.

We should avoid declaring things to be easy, since that's a subjective opinion of the reader. I also don't think this sentence improves the tutorial, so I'd just cut it.

Reviewer 2: Agree. But you can indicate that doing something a certain way will make the procedure easier. So here you could say "This makes it easier to use these libraries in your project because ..." and then say why it makes it easier.

2. Build the project

    Next, proceed to build the project:

    ```bash
    cmake --build build
    ```

3. Run the application

    Finally, run the executable to see your application in action:

    ```bash
    ./build/HelloWorld
    
    Hello World!
    ```

## Next steps

> To learn more about `vcpkg.json`, check out our reference documentation:

Reviewer 2: check out => just say 'see our reference documentation'.  'check out' is slangy.

---

> title: Install and use packages on Linux

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Install and use packages on Linux with vcpkg
```

SEO likes it when we say `vcpkg`

description: Tutorial guides the user through the process of installing and using packages on Linux with vcpkg.
author: JavierMatosD

> ms.date: 08/23/2023

Reviewer 2: Missing the content metadata tag: ms.topic should be added and set to tutorial.
Here's [the guide on writing tutorials](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/patterns/level4/article-tutorial?branch=main#use-a-template)

ms.author: javiermat
ms.prod: vcpkg
---
# Install and use packages on Linux

> ## Description

Reviewer 2: You don't need the description title

> This tutorial guides you through setting up a new C++ "Hello World" project using the `fmt` library. You'll manage dependencies, build the application, and eventually run your project, all using vcpkg. This tutorial assumes you have vcpkg setup and ready to use. If not, check out our initial setup [tutorial](setup-vcpkg.md).

Reviewer 2: All the 'will use' stuff will get flagged by acrolinx. Shorter is: "This tutorial shows how to set up a ...", etc.

### Prerequisites

> For this tutorial, you'll need: a terminal, `git`, `cmake`, and a C++ compiler.

Reviewer 2: All of the prereqs (that we own) should point to our docs for how to install them if you don't have them.

> ## Step 1: Setup the project

Reviewer 2: Don't call out 'Step'. In general, this tutorial is sort of inventing a new format. We are trying to drive towards consistency in the Learn docs so that as people use multiple technologies, they don't have to learn new formats for how we present information. Please see our [cpub guide](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/patterns/level4/article-tutorial?branch=main#use-a-template) for how to write a tutorial. It also links to real-world examples. https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/patterns/level4/article-tutorial?branch=main#use-a-template

- A terminal to work in.
- `git`, `CMake`, and a C++ compiler installed on your system
- vcpkg installed on your system

> ## 1 - Set up the project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Set up the project
```

Tutorial template says not to use numbers in steps

Author: https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/patterns/level4/article-tutorial?branch=main#use-h2s-to-describe-tasks

It says to use number in the h2 for steps.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the correction, I misread the template

```bash
mkdir helloworld && cd helloworld
```

### Step 1.2 Create the manifest

From within the `helloworld` directory, run:

```bash

> ..\vcpkg\vcpkg new --name helloworld --version 1.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
..\vcpkg\vcpkg new --application
```

>     This tutorial assumes your project will be located at the path `/home/helloworld`. If you intend to place your project somewhere else, replace any references to that path with your preferred path.
> 
>     Create the "helloworld" directory for the new project next to your vcpkg clone and navigate into it:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This tutorial assumes your project is located in `/home/helloworld`. If you intend to place your project somewhere else, replace any references to that path with your preferred path.

Create a directory named "helloworld" to contain your project files, put it right next to your vcpkg directory. Then, navigate to your project directory.
```

No special indent at the beginning of paragraphs.

Author: It is indented because it is nested within an enumerated step.

2. Create the manifest

>     Next, create a `vcpkg.json` manifest file in your project directory. vcpkg reads this file to learn what dependencies to install.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Next, create a file named `vcpkg.json` in your project's directory, this is your manifest file. vcpkg reads the manifest file to learn what dependencies to install.
```

The `vcpkg new` command will add a `vcpkg.json` file and a `vcpkg-configuration.json` file to your projects directory. The `vcpkg.json` file should look like this:

```json
{
    "name": "helloworld",
    "version": "1.0"
}
```

The `vcpkg.json` file serves as the foundation to integrate vcpkg in your C++ project. Initially, it contains your project's name and version; additional attributes like dependencies and supported features can be added as your project grows.

To learn more about `vcpkg.json`, check out our reference [documentation](..\reference\vcpkg-json.md).

### Step 1.3 Remove configuration file

The `vcpkg-configuration.json` file serves a different purpose. This file allows full control over your dependencies' sources and it's out of scope for this tutorial.

> For this tutorial, our dependencies all come from the vcpkg registry at <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>. When there's no explicit configuration provided, vcpkg uses this registry as default. So the next step is to delete this file.

Reviewer 2: Who is 'our'?

```bash
rm vcpkg-configuration.json
```

## Step 2: Add dependencies and project files

Now that the project is properly set up, lets add the `fmt` library as a dependency and generate the project files.

### Step 2.1: Add `fmt` dependency

> Since this project will use the `fmt` library to print "Hello World", you'll want to add `fmt` to the "dependencies" list in the manifest. To do this, run:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
First, run the following command to add `fmt` to the `dependencies` list in your vcpkg.json file:
```

Reviewer 2: Why this redundancy? You just said we were going to add the fmt library as a dependency.  Think of your word count as something you have to pay for, because the reader does in terms of time/effort.

```bash
..\vcpkg\vcpkg add port fmt
```

Your `vcpkg.json` should look like this:

```json
{
    "name": "helloworld",

>     "version": "1.0",

Reviewer 4: Ditto, can remove name & version from this.

    "dependencies": [
    "fmt"
    ]
}
```

> Notice that your `vcpkg.json` file now lists `fmt` as a dependency.

Reviewer 4: I think this sentence can be removed since it's clear from looking at the example above it that it's listing fmt there now.

### Step 2.2: Create project files

Now, create the `CMakeLists.txt` and `main.cpp` files:

```bash
touch CMakeLists.txt main.cpp
```

Fill in `CMakeLists.txt` with the necessary information to find and link the `fmt` package. The `CMakeLists.txt` should look like this:

:::code language="cmake" source="../examples/snippets/get-started-linux/CMakeLists.txt":::

Likewise, populate `main.cpp` to print a simple "Hello World" using the `fmt` library. The `main.cpp` should look like this:

:::code language="cpp" source="../examples/snippets/get-started-linux/main.cpp":::

> ## Step 3: Build and execute the project

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Build and run the project
```

> ### Step 3.1: Configure

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Step 3.1: Run CMake configuration
```

> Configure the build using CMake. Remember to point to the correct location of your vcpkg directory by updating the `<vcpkg-root>` placeholder:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Configure the build using CMake. You will need to point to the directory where vcpkg was installed by updating the `<vcpkg-root>` placeholder with the right path:
```

```bash
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=<vcpkg-root>/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake
```

> The toolchain file allows users to access vcpkg-provided libraries in their CMake project.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The vcpkg.cmake toolchain file allows the CMake project system to recognize C++ libraries provided by vcpkg. This will make it easy to use these libraries in your project with minimal effort. 
```

Reviewer 2: Try to remove all the future tense stuff. "This will make..." -> "This makes", etc.

> ### Step 3.2: Build

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Step 3.2: Build the project
```

Next, proceed to build the project:

```bash
cmake --build build
```

> ### Step 3.3: Execute

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Step 3.3: Run the application
```

Finally, run the executable to see your application in action:

```bash
./build/HelloWorld

> ```

Reviewer 4: You should show what the output should look like for the user so they can verify that they did things correctly. 

Also, I would a "Next steps" heading at the bottom with some links. Namely the vcpkg.json reference, the manifest mode article (https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/vcpkg/users/manifests). It would also be good to add a link to the "Install a specific version of a dependency" how-to guide, but we need to publish that first.

---
title: Installing and Using Packages on Linux
description: Tutorial guides the user through the process of installing and using packages on Linux with vcpkg.
author: JavierMatosD
ms.date: 08/23/2023
ms.author: javiermat
ms.prod: vcpkg
---
# Installing and Using Packages on Linux

## Description

In this tutorial, you will learn how to use vcpkg to set up a new "Hello World" project using the `fmt` library, manage dependencies, build, and run your C++ application. 

> ## Setup vcpkg

Reviewer 3: I'd just add the other article in this PR so everything gets merged at once.

---
title: Install and use packages on Linux
description: Tutorial guides the user through the process of installing and using packages on Linux with vcpkg.
author: JavierMatosD
ms.date: 08/23/2023
ms.author: javiermat
ms.prod: vcpkg
---
# Install and use packages on Linux

## Description

This tutorial guides you through setting up a new C++ "Hello World" project using the `fmt` library. You'll manage dependencies, build the application, and eventually run your project, all using vcpkg. This tutorial assumes you have vcpkg setup and ready to use. If not, check out our initial setup [tutorial](setup-vcpkg.md).

### Prerequisites

For this tutorial, you'll need to have `git`, `bash`, `CMake`, and a C++ compiler installed.

## Setup the project

Create a directory for your new project next to your vcpkg clone and navigate into it:

```bash
mkdir helloworld && cd helloworld
```

> Initiate a new project within this directory, creating the manifest (`vcpkg.json`) and default configuration files (`vcpkg-configuration.json`). From within the `helloworld` directory, run:

Reviewer 3: I think it is also hard to see the boundaries between instruction steps, the long explanation from one step runs into the next instruction without a break of some sort. Just by skimming I could miss one step in the tutorial.

I'd recommend at least using heading style

--- 

## Setup the project 

### Create the project directory

Create a directory for your new project next to your vcpkg clone and navigate into it:

`mkdir helloworld & cd helloworld`

### Create the project files 

Initiate a new project within....

## Add the `fmt` dependencies

---

You could take it further using "Step #" in the headings too:

## Step 1: setup the project 
### Step 1.1: create the project directory
### Step 1.2: create the project files 
## Step 2: add the `fmt` dependencies

Author: Originally, I had it set up with steps, but @AugP suggested a more conversational style without the steps. I could add some headings to provide some breaks within the tutorial.

Reviewer 4: Formatting with steps sounds good to me. I agree with Victor's feedback that it would make it easier to follow.

Author: @AugP, can you confirm the direction?

```bash
..\vcpkg\vcpkg new --name helloworld --version 1.0
```

>[!NOTE]

> >Ensure the project directory name matches exactly with the name you give to the `vcpkg new` command. This ensures the manifest files land in the correct directory.

Author: Sorry, my note is not descriptive enough. The problem isn't with the `vpkg new` command. This just spits out the manifest in the cwd. The problem is when you try to use commands like `vpkg add port foo`. For example, if I name my directory "helloworld", and run: `vcpkg new --name HelloWorld --version 1.0`, it will spit out a manifest in the cwd which is "helloworld". However, if I try to run `vcpkg add port fmt` then you get the following error:

```
error: while loading C:\dev\helloworld\vcpkg.json:
$.name (an identifier): "helloWorld" is not a valid identifier. Identifiers must be lowercase alphanumeric+hypens and not reserved (see https://learn.microsoft.com/vcpkg/users/manifests for more information)See https://learn.microsoft.com/vcpkg/users/manifests for more information.
```

The error message is not very descriptive of the problem.

As mentioned above, the `vcpkg new` command will add a `vcpkg.json` file and a `vcpkg-configuration.json` file to your projects directory. The `vcpkg.json` file should look like this:

```json
{
    "name": "helloworld",
    "version": "1.0"
}
```

> This `vcpkg.json` file serves as the foundation for your vcpkg-based C++ project. It identifies your project by name and version, setting the stage for additional attributes and dependencies that might be added as your project grows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `vcpkg.json` file serves as the foundation to integrate vcpkg in your C++ project. Initially, it contains your project's name and version; additional attributes like dependencies and supported features can be added as your project grows.
```

To learn more about `vcpkg.json`, check out our reference [documentation](..\reference\vcpkg-json.md).

> The `vcpkg-configuration.json` file serves a different purpose. This file essentially allows you to specify which registry vcpkg should use to look for packages (both by default and additionally). It should look like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `vcpkg-configuration.json` file serves a different purpose. This file allows full control over your dependencies' sources and it's out of scope for this tutorial. 

For this tutorial, our dependencies all come from the vcpkg registry at <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>. When there's no explicit configuration provided, vcpkg uses this registry as default. So the next step is to delete this file.

`rm vcpkg-configuration.json`
```

For this tutorial we should probably avoid overwhelming users with this information, let's just give a brief explanation and have them delete the `vcpkg-configuration.json` file.

> ```json
> {
>     "default-registry": {
>         "kind": "git",
>         "baseline": "b98e11a16474488633d8a1ab3e160da1f94b98e2",
>         "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg"
> },
>     "registries": [
>         {
>         "kind": "artifact",
>         "location": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-ce-catalog/archive/refs/heads/main.zip",
>         "name": "microsoft"
>         }
>     ]
> }
> ```
> 
> There's a lot going on here, but lets break it down line-by-line starting with the `default-registry` JSON object:
> 
> As the name suggests, the `"default-registry"` specifies the default location vcpkg should use to look for packages. The `"default-registry":{` key specifies the default package-registry settings containing details about the registry.
> 
> * `"kind": "git",`: Specifies the type of registry. In this case, it's a Git repository.
> * `"baseline": "b98e11a16474488633d8a1ab3e160da1f94b98e2",`: Represents a set of versions which are likely to work together.
> * "`"repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg"`: Is the URL of the Git repository to be used as the default registry.
> 
> This tutorial only uses the default registry, but know that you can specify additional registries by adding them to the `registries` array. Note that different kinds of registries will have different attributes. In this case, the `registries` array contains one additional registry that's different from the default. Let's break it down:
> 
> * `"kind": "artifact,"`: Specifies the type of this additional registry. In this example, it's an "artifact" type.
> * `"location": https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-ce-catalog/archive/refs/heads/main.zip",`: The URL from which this artifact registry can be fetched.
> * `"name": "microsoft"`: Specifies the name for this additional registry, which is "microsoft".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: This will be covered by an in-depth tutorial

Author: @AugP, suggested I give a detailed explanation for each line in the JSON snippet. I wasn't aware there would be more in-depth tutorials?

Reviewer 4: @vicroms in this case this is the tutorial. If you mean there will be how-to guides as well, I would say those would be less wordy since they would focus on getting the user to complete the task in a practical way and would be less concerned with teaching the user about exactly how everything works. 

I think the Get started content needs to accomplish two things:
1. Provide only the minimal information the user needs to know to complete the tutorial (avoid overwhelming with information). Give the user a simple task and keep them laser-focused on that task. 
2. For anything that is referenced in the tutorial (part of that minimal information), describe everything that is referenced thoroughly, so the user is sure of what everything does.

Author: @AugP, I think your points are a bit contradictory. Given those two goals, I'm not sure how much information is _minimal_ but also describes "everything that is referenced thoroughly"

Reviewer 4: Actually, I think I misunderstood what Victor was saying. There will indeed be a separate tutorial on creating and publishing packages, which can go into the vcpkg-configuration.json topic. Yes, it can be removed from this tutorial if the user doesn't need to actually edit this file. 

The two points are basically saying that a tutorial should have a specific, learning-oriented task for the user to accomplish. We should not go off-script to talk about other topics (even if they are loosely related), but for the topics we do talk about (the ones for the task at hand), each concept should be described without the user having to look at other documentation to understand what the tutorial is talking about.

To learn more about `vcpkg-configuration.json` check out our reference [documentation](..\reference\vcpkg-configuration-json.md).

Now that the project is properly set up, lets add the `fmt` library as a dependency and generate the project files.

## Adding dependencies and project files

Since this project will use the `fmt` library to print "Hello World", you'll want to add `fmt` to the "dependencies" list in the manifest. To do this, run:

```bash
..\vcpkg\vcpkg add port fmt
```

Your `vcpkg.json` should look like this:

```json
{
    "name": "helloworld",
    "version": "1.0",
    "dependencies": [
    "fmt"
    ]
}
```

Notice that your `vcpkg.json` file now lists `fmt` as a dependency. Now, create the `CMakeLists.txt` and `main.cpp` files:

```bash
touch CMakeLists.txt main.cpp
```

Fill in `CMakeLists.txt` with the necessary information to find and link the `fmt` package. The `CMakeLists.txt` should look like this:

```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.10)

project(HelloWorld)

find_package(fmt CONFIG REQUIRED)

add_executable(HelloWorld main.cpp)

target_link_libraries(HelloWorld PRIVATE fmt::fmt)

> ```

Reviewer 3: Since we are likely to use the same code-snippets in the Windows and macOS tutorials we should put this code into its own file in a `snippets` subdirectory and use the `:::code :::` markdown extension to render it. There's an example of how to use snippets in the existing Getting Started with Manifest Mode article.

Likewise, populate `main.cpp` to print a simple "Hello World" using the `fmt` library. The `main.cpp` should look like this:

```cpp
#include <fmt/core.h>

int main(){
fmt::print("Hello World!\n");
return 0;
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: Ditto with this code snippet.

---
title: Installing and Using Packages on Linux
description: Tutorial guides the user through the process of installing and using packages on Linux with vcpkg.
author: JavierMatosD
ms.date: 08/23/2023
ms.author: javiermat
ms.prod: vcpkg
---
# Installing and Using Packages on Linux

## Description

In this tutorial, you will learn how to use vcpkg to set up a new "Hello World" project using the `fmt` library, manage dependencies, build, and run your C++ application. 

## Setup vcpkg

1. **Clone the vcpkg repository**

>    Downloads the vcpkg registry.

Reviewer 3: The preamble should be more descriptive

> The first step is to clone the vcpkg repository. The repository contains scripts to acquire the vcpkg executable and a registry of open-source packages that is curated and maintained by the vcpkg team and its community of contributors.

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg.git
    ```

>    vcpkg's curated registry refers to a set of libraries that have been vetted and packaged to work smoothly with the vcpkg package management system. These libraries are usually open-source projects from various domains, and they are included in vcpkg's main GitHub repository. Each package or "port" in the curated registry typically contains:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The curated registry is a set of libraries that have been vetted and packaged to work smoothly with vcpkg. vcpkg uses "ports" to package open-source projects and make them available to install. Ports typically contain: 
```

Some information here seems irrelevant or redundant, since this is a tutorial, we should avoid overwhelming readers.

>    **a.** `Portfile.cmake`: A CMake script that contains instructions for downloading, building, and installing the library.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   **a.** `portfile.cmake`: A CMake script that contains instructions for downloading, building, and installing the library.
```

>    **b.** `vcpkg.json`: Information like version numbers, dependencies, and other data that vcpkg uses to manage the package.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   **b.** `vcpkg.json`: a JSON file including package metadata: package version, dependencies, supported platforms and features, etc.
```

>    **c.** Patches: Any necessary patches to make the library work with vcpkg or to fix issues in the library itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   **c.** Patches: Any necessary patches to make the library work with vcpkg or to fix issues in the library itself.
```

I think there's no need to mention patches just yet. Or at least remark that patches aren't always needed.
